have you recently seen a drop in your
Instagram story views or maybe you just
want to strategically boost your story
views maybe you have an upcoming sale or
promotion that you want to make sure
people see or maybe for no reason at all
you just want to increase your story
views well if so you're in the right
place because in today's episode I'm
going to give you the dos and don'ts to
boost your Instagram story
views in case we've never met before
hello there my name is Brock Johnson I
am an Instagram growth strategist who
has grown my own following by more than
600,000 followers in the last few years
and it's my job to help you grow your
following as well but not just boost
your followers or boost your views but
turn those views into actual customers
turn those followers into dollars that's
what I hope you do and specifically
today we're going to be talking about
increasing your Instagram story views
Instagram stories are hugely important
because they are arguably the best place
to begin the sales process on Instagram
the majority of sales and new customers
on Instagram are created in the direct
messages but it's not always easy to get
people into the DMS so that's where
stories fit into this equation stories
on Instagram are one of the most
seamless ways that you can transition
someone from a viewer a follower or even
someone who's highly engaged into
someone who's actually in your DMs and
primed and ready to become an actual
customer and recently I have seen a
massive spike in my Instagram story
views over the last few years my story
views have peaked at around 10,000 views
per story and now they are upwards of
50,000 views per story and I'm not going
to gatekeep I'm not going to BS I'm
going to share all of the strategies and
all the techniques with you in today's
episode in today's episode I'm even
going to take you into my actual
Instagram insights so that you can take
a look at what some of my most viewed
stories are and get a sense of the kind
of content that I'm posting that is
generating these super high views
specifically over the course of this
episode I'm going to be alternating
between the dos and the don't so I'll
give you a don't and I'll give you a do
to help you hopefully get your stories
back on the right track but let's start
with that first don't don't use the full
60 seconds Instagram stories can be up
to 60 seconds long and I know a lot of
people were really excited when that
came out you used to be able to record
60 seconds but then Instagram would cut
them into 15 second segments and before
that you could only max out at 15
seconds now you can record a full 60
seconds if you wanted post that and
record another full 60 seconds but I
would not recommend doing this and the
reason for that is a few things number
one and first and foremost people go to
Instagram stories for quick content
they're going to watch Instagram stories
to consume content that is brief and
that is in the moment and that long-
winded content unless it's super
engaging and you're just that great of a
Storyteller it can be hard to grab
someone's attention and hold it for the
duration of 60 seconds I mean chances
are even while you're listening to this
podcast you're doing other things if
you're listening to the audio only
version you're most likely driving or
working out or doing something else on
the side while listening and if you're
watching this podcast on YouTube you're
most likely also on your phone or also
on your computer or also doing other
things that's just the nature of
consuming content nowadays whenever it's
long form content unless it's like a
movie that we're sitting in theaters for
we're distracted by other things our
attention span is really really short
and so the expectation that your
followers are going to sit there and
watch your entire 60-second story
without any interruptions is kind of an
unrealistic expectation and the second
reason why 60-second story or something
that I wouldn't recommend is that
there's no way to scrub through them and
what I mean by that is as someone is
watching the 60-second story there's no
way for them to rewind to fast forward
they can technically pause but that
doesn't do them very much good if they
miss the thing that they just heard like
if they were like oh wait what did she
just say oh wait what was that piece of
the video and so it makes them have to
choose between either accepting hey I
missed that thing so I'm just going to
skip the whole video or it makes them
have to start the entire video video
over so if they were 45 seconds through
the video and they miss something they
know have to start the entire story over
and watch the full 45 seconds just to
get to the part that they missed so
again if you're not a great Storyteller
if you're not someone who's super
captivating on video which I don't even
consider myself someone who can hold the
majority of my audience for 60 seconds
unedited unfiltered well then I wouldn't
recommend doing 60-second stories and
also in general from talking to my
followers and from polling my audience
it seems like when people open a story
and they realize it's one of those
talking directly to camera stories and
they see that that little ticker up at
the top is barely moving which implies
that this is a longer story they kind of
just skip it all together because again
that's not why they went to stories in
the first place and they know inherently
all of these problems that exist they
know that they're not going to be able
to stay engaged for 60 seconds and they
know that even if they do try or want to
they're going to miss out on something
and then have to rewind the video or
start over uh and so generally speaking
I would not recommend using those full
60-second stories if you do want to do a
talking direct to camera video on your
Instagram stories I would recommend to
keep it very brief and if you are
someone who is long-winded if you are
someone who kind of rambles on a little
bit maybe plan it out beforehand or even
record that video beforehand pop it into
a quick editing app like cap cut or
inshot and cut it up cut out those
unnecessary redundant Parts cut out the
Dead Space cut out the ums s and the
pauses to make it really as short as
possible you could even consider
breaking that 60-second story into
bite-size segments kind of like
Instagram used to automatically do for
us maybe you're going to take that
60-second story and cut it down to just
40 seconds because 20 seconds of it was
redundant and then you're going to break
those 40 seconds into four 10c segments
so that you essentially posting four
stories at once but they're each short
enough that if people get lost or people
lose interest they can easily fast
forward or rewind without having the
frustration of having to sit through an
entire 60-second video so that's the
first don't and the first do is to kind
of do the opposite and that is to use
text post stories and specifically to
use long form text post stories and I
know this might sound contradictory but
when you are writing two to three
paragraphs of text on a still image
Instagram story people understand that
they can skim they can skip ahead as
they're reading and they can easily hold
their finger down to pause and read
basically they can consume the exact
same content but at their own pace so
something that you could do here is
instead of speaking those 60 seconds
worth of stories speak it using voice to
text or just write down what you were
going to say in that spoken audio and
turn it into a text-based story in fact
right now I have my Instagram insights
pulled up and as I look at my most
viewed stories of all time 1 2 3 4 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 all of them I was
going to count it up and give you like
you know 17 out of 25 but it's literally
the first 15 or 18 on this list all are
text post stories with lots of text like
two to three paragraphs worth of text
it's not until I get to a few stories
that were actually the second story in
that day so like the first story in that
day got a bunch of so the Second Story
got a little bit less but still quite a
few views and that Second Story wasn't a
text post story but literally almost all
of my most viewed stories are heavy
heavy on the text they have at least a
few sentences if not a few paragraphs
worth of text and again that's because
those kinds of stories encourage people
to hold their finger down and pause and
read the story and from Instagram's
point of view that is an awesome form of
Engagement that means that you are
keeping people on Instagram longer and
that's what Instagram wants basically in
Instagram's eyes you posted something
that was so good that people are
spending more time than Instagram
planned on giving them to consume that
content and that's really the key Secret
Sauce here of how certain stories get
pushed out to more people than others
and speaking of hold to read you might
not have a super Instagram Savvy
audience you might not have trained your
audience too hold their finger down to
pause and read just yet so when you
first start doing these text post
stories I would recommend using a pause
to read or hold to read sticker
basically after you create the story
just go to the gifts section on
Instagram stories and type in hold to
read or pause to read or even just the
word pause or hold and then you can
place a little sticker down in the
corner that will encourage or remind
people to put their finger on the screen
thus pausing your story so they have
time to consume the text that you have
created all right let's get back into
the don't category this next don't is
don't forget to add closed captions if
you are doing a spoken audio story you
have to keep in mind that about 80% of
Instagram users consume content on mute
which means if they're watching your
Instagram story and you're blabbering on
talking about whatever it may be that
you're talking about that day and your
stories don't have captions well then
four out of five people will not be able
to consume that content and they'll just
skip it all together the expectation
that someone is going to turn up their
volume and unmute their phone and listen
to it is unreasonable and unrealistic
not everyone is cap AP of doing that at
that time A lot of people are busy or
preoccupied or they can't turn up their
volume so it's important to add close
captions also from an accessibility
standpoint you can make your content
accessible to all people by adding
closed caption so always always always
do that there is an Instagram story
sticker that should automatically add
closed captions for you and the vast
majority of users do have access to that
sticker so just use that and if you
don't have access to that sticker just
pop your recorded video into an app
again again like cap cut or mix captions
to quickly add closed captioning to your
videos so that people know what the heck
you're talking about speaking of those
Instagram Story stickers my second do is
do use the engagement stickers after you
create or record your story you can
click on the stickers menu and see that
there is a wide variety of stickers that
Instagram allows you to quickly and
easily add to your story and they're not
all created equal some are definitely
better than others but the bottom line
here is that you want to use these
engagement stickers because without them
it's harder for people to engage when
you add an engagement sticker you are
more likely to get engagement now which
one should you specifically use it
depends on the story it depends on your
audience personally I have found that
the Emoji sticker which is literally
just One Singular emoji that you get to
choose people tap on it and the Emojis
kind of like float up the screen that is
one that is very low cost or low effort
required by your viewers so I feel that
it's very easy for people to tap on that
and and engage and on the opposite end
of the spectrum I generally feel that
the question response box or the ask me
anything box that's usually the hardest
to get people to engage because it's
requiring more effort right it's
requiring some creativity on their end
to come up with a question or it's
requiring a more lengthy response so
generally speaking I like to use that
emoji engagement sticker or what you'll
see with a lot of my most viewed stories
is that I'm using DM automation because
again it's very easy right people are
just typing in one key word but it's a
great form of Engagement because it
shows Instagram that people are spending
more time on Instagram because of the
story that people are so engaged with
the story that they're dming me
Instagram doesn't necessarily see like
oh hey you know a thousand people all
responded with the exact one word DM
Instagram just saw a thousand people
responded to this story and that's a
great form of Engagement and so they're
going to show that story to more people
so includeing engagement sticker or
include some way that people are
intended to engage with that story
basically add a call to action to the
story so it's not just a few paragraphs
of text but it's a few paragraphs of
text with the next steps with a call to
action telling people what you want them
to do now my next don't is kind of built
off of some of the Dos that I've already
mentioned and it's kind of like me
catching you before I know you're going
to do what you're going to do so don't
feel called out on this one but don't
use premade pre-edited canva templates
for your stories I know there's like
this epidemic going on of people who are
using canva and using all these
different stories apps to create these
highly edited complex intricately
designed stories spending minutes if not
hours of their day creating these really
intricate wellth thought out pre-planned
stories and I can't stress this enough
don't do that and of course I should say
right now before we go any further like
if you are someone who is having great
success doing something that I'm telling
you not to do or not doing something
that I'm telling you to do then by all
means give me the middle finger and keep
doing what you're doing keep doing
what's working I'm just going to report
to you what's working for us what's
working for our students and what we
hear from polling our audience and
talking to the people on Instagram and
that is that these really intricate
Stories the ones that you know you're
going to canva.com and you're creating a
new a new design that is Instagram
stories template and then you're like
using all these pretty graphics and
everything you're spending a fair amount
of your time doing that and you're doing
it to create a piece of content that
will live on Instagram stories for a few
seconds and then be gone forever and not
only that it's also a story that feels
kind of inauthentic or inorganic like it
feels pre-planned and that's because
people immediately know oh hey this was
created in canva or this was created in
some outside app this wasn't in
Instagram story so this wasn't really an
in the- moment thing this wasn't really
a like genuine authentic then and there
you had to be there type of moment this
was like oh hey she was thinking about
this she planned this she wrote this out
she designed this and there's just a
little bit of a disconnect there I
struggle to put into words exactly what
is going on but essentially because
people know that there has been so much
planning and thought put into this it
feels less authentic I guess it feels
Less in the moment and so I would
recommend not using those pre-made canva
templates for your Instagram stories I
mean as you saw my top viewed stories
from this year are almost 100% black
background with white text I mean you
can't get any more basic and generic
than that not very much thought into
like the pretty graphic design or the
color palette it was just quick and in
the moment it was a black background
with some white text on top and it
worked also speaking of worked I I'm
really excited about this and I wanted
to tell you in fact I was thinking about
doing an entire episode just on this we
just got back some data on our internal
members in the insta clubhub we hired
someone who was getting their PHD in
Instagram research to do a deep dive
into our Top members and we found that
the average engaged insta clubhub member
grew their Instagram following by
42% in 2023 over this past year they
grew on average by more than 15,000
followers that was crazy that blew my
mind I literally just got that
information right before hitting record
today and so I had to share that with
you if you're someone who is already in
the insta clubhub and you're listening
to this today I highly encourage you to
get back in there watch some of our
recent live trainings even if you only
have 5 minutes per week week you can
check out the weekly trending updates
area and get some trending audios and
that good stuff if you're not already a
member of the insta clubhub I would love
to invite you in if you're listening to
this around Black Friday time maybe
you're listening on Thanksgiving or on
Black Friday head to insta clubhub.com
trial and you can find out more about
our Black Friday sale we're giving away
a bunch of free bonuses for people who
are joining the membership and even if
you're listening to or watching this and
it's a few weeks or a few months after
Black Friday Friday I would highly
encourage you again to visit insta
clubhub.com trial you can find that
linked up down in the show notes below
and that's where you can learn more
about all of our in-depth Instagram
coaching and strategies where we share
exactly what you need to know to
strategically grow your Instagram and
make more money but anyways let's get
back into how you boost your Instagram
stories views the third do relates to
the third don't and that is that even
though I'm telling you not to like
pre-plan your stories in canva and make
them like these intricate beautiful
designs there should be a thought into
text placement Design Elements and
specifically text hierarchy essentially
there are a few general rules when you
are creating your text-based Instagram
stories rule number one don't put
anything near the borders of the screen
anything that's too high too far to the
sides too far down low it might get cut
off on different people's phones because
even though most phones are generally
the same size they might have slightly
different aspect ratios which just means
like slightly different dimensions
and so sometimes stories can get cut off
sometimes the bottom can get cut off
sometimes the sides can get squeezed so
generally speaking don't put any text
near the borders and that goes for
engagement stickers as well with
engagement stickers you really want to
make sure they are near the middle of
the screen you really want to make sure
that engagement stickers are big and
easy to tap on you don't want to put
them down in the corner so that someone
tries to tap on it and then they
accidentally skip your story and then
they either have to just accept that
they skipped it or come back to the
story and then try to tap it again it's
a very frustrating process process so
just generally speaking keep everything
in the middle also big big tip here very
big mistake that a lot of people make is
they align their text to the center
which makes text so much harder to read
so much harder to skim there's a reason
why when you read a book it's always
aligned to the left so make sure when
you are writing Instagram stories
especially when you're writing those
longer text based Instagram stories that
might have two or three paragraphs align
them to the left so that it's easier for
people to read and easier for people to
skim and then finally text hierarchy
essentially just refers to kind of how
people will read an article or different
size text that's a good way to think
about it um and that's why you know when
you open the newspaper which I don't
know anyone who still reads the
newspaper but hey maybe you still do if
you do that's awesome but when you read
the newspaper the headline is literally
at the top it is the first line and it
is very big and bold and it's meant to
grab your attention when you are making
text-based Instagram stories you might
consider using a similar strategy where
you kind of summarize or create some
sort of headline or hook that can be
placed in Bolder or bigger text up at
the top and then as people read through
something that I also like to do is I
will highlight keywords by selecting
that word and then changing the color or
even changing the font for specific
words so that as people are skimming
their eyes can more easily digest what
they're reading and their eyes can be
drawn to the key moments that you really
want to make sure people get out of this
text story all right now let's move back
into the don't category and this is
something that has actually changed
recently L and is a new algorithm update
as we move into 2024 something that we
have already reported on to our insta
clubhub members and that is that with
Instagram Stories We Now recommend a
less is more approach in the past the
general recommendation the best practice
that we would share is that if you
posted more stories throughout the day
then each time you posted a story your
little bubble your little Story icon
would move back to the front of the
queue and then people would be more
likely to watch it and while that is
still true in practice and while that
may still be true for some people what
we have found is that as you post more
and more stories let's say 5 to 10 or
even more stories in the day people
become more likely to skip the entire
bunch and that's because generally as
time has progressed I think that the
average Instagram user has become more
Savvy to consuming Instagram stories and
so when they open your story and they
see all those little dashes up at the
top they instantly know this is going to
be really long and if they're not a big
fan of you if they don't absolutely love
and adore your stories if your stories
aren't can't Miss content if they're not
like Kardashian level engaging well then
people are going to just skip the whole
story Al together rather than watching
all of those little bullet points so
generally speaking less is actually more
now when it comes to Instagram stories
of all of those most viewed or top
Instagram stories that I've posted I
have received little to no benefit by
posting more additional stories after
that one initial story and actually what
I have seen is a slight decrease in
views on my first story as I continue to
add more throughout the day or I
shouldn't say a decrease in views
because it's not a number that can go
down like once the view is counted it
counts but a decrease from the expected
total so if I post one of those text
post stories and I normally would expect
40 to 50,000 views on that but then I
follow it up with a bunch of subsequent
stories throughout the day that first
story won't end up reaching the 40 to
50,000 number it will instead Plateau it
again maybe 10 to 20,000 so less is more
with inst St stories translation if you
have something that you really want to
make sure people see like a sale maybe a
Black Friday sale or around that time of
year maybe a cyber monday sale again
we're around that time of year maybe a
promotion a launch a new podcast a new
post something that you really want to
make sure people see instead of doing a
bunch of stories that day just do One
Singular story make it One Singular text
post story and that will be more likely
to get engagement and be shown to more
people and then last but not least I
think I might have saved the best
strategy for last if you don't already
know this one this is a tried and true
seasoned strategy that has been proven
time and time again to boost people's
views and something that I have now
incorporated into my weekly routine on a
regular basis and not just like once a
week like multiple times a week I'm
using this strategy and that is to take
a complete Wipeout Instagram stories
break basically allow at least 24 hours
to pass between your last story and
whatever your next story is so that your
story can can be totally blank and in
fact I usually like to wait 48 hours
because 24 hours allows the story to you
know the existing story to expire
because it sits on your story for 24
hours and then I wait an additional 24
so 24 plus 24 48 Hours basically I wait
2 days between each of my stories when
I'm trying to boost my views because
what this kind of does is it allows your
stories to reset it allows the algorithm
on your specific stories to reset and
everything goes to zero so in instead of
saying oh hey you had 150 viewers and of
those viewers 75% skipped the story and
20% swiped away and only 5% engage no no
no it's just z0000 across the board and
so you can kind of start with a fresh
Blank Slate each time and hopefully this
is encouraging to you because now you
don't have to post 50 stories a day
every single day to stay consistent you
can post like three or four stories
total for the entire week and get much
better results so I'm often now taking
these breaks I'll take multiple day
breaks prolonged breaks to allow my
algorithm my stories algorithm to
constantly reset itself and then I come
back with a banger I come back with an
awesome story a text post story using
all the strategies all the dos and
don'ts that I've shared with you today
and it's just a really great way to make
sure that I am keeping my story views
High keeping people engaged and keeping
them coming back for more now of course
this is only one piece of the puzzle
because the stories algorithm is totally
different than the feed algorithm and
the feed is how you're going to reach
new people because spoiler alert stories
don't help you grow your following
stories can be great for engagement
stories can be great for sales like we
talked about earlier but stories don't
really boost your following or even help
you reach any new people generally
speaking so of course you need to know
how to boost your feed you need to make
sure you know how reals and carousels
and photos can be used strategically to
grow your following and that's exactly
what we talked about in a recent episode
of build your tribe which was titled how
to get more engagement on Instagram the
2024 algorithm secret I highly recommend
watching that video I just put it out a
few days ago and in that I shared a
bunch of Juicy knowledge predictions and
actually big changes that are coming to
Instagram in 2024 make sure to check
that out don't forget to hit the
Subscribe button press the thumbs up if
you liked it and I will see you in the
next episode and as always happy
[Music]
networking
yeah